Mike Schmidt
Based on: Mike Schmidt
The human protagonist of Roommates. Strong-willed, but means well. Loves movies.
Amnesiac Dissonance: In his old world, Mike kept pictures and scraps of information about his old job at Freddy Fazbear's even after ending up jobless and homeless. In his new one, sans memories, he had no idea they were in his backpack and was horrified and fascinated by them, ultimately choosing to burn them and forget the past.
Amnesiac Hero: He actually doesn't really remember anything about who he is or where he comes from, though he knows that he doesn't belong in this world. In fact, he starts to have doubts if even the few memories he has are real, wondering if maybe he's just a bald ape with dementia. It turns out that he's really from another world.
Big Damn Heroes:
Climbs into Jeremy Human's through an air vent to rescue Bonita from Fritzine.
Saves Nisha from getting drawn and quartered.
Risks his own life to stop Jeremy from escaping into the city with his army of mish-mashes.
Chick Magnet: It'd be easier to list the female cast members who don't flirt* with him at some point, although it's unclear how serious everyone is. In particular, Chiclet, Cheeky, Mangle and Mango all flirt with him repeatedly, Bonbon's dedicated mini reveals that she thinks Mike is just her type, both Bonbon and Bonnibel lay The Big Damn Kiss on him at some point, and Goose seizes the opportunity to give him a grope at the end of chapter 41. Even Nisha, while being arrested in Chapter 49, lets on that she now has a crush on him after he managed to save her life in the nick of time.
Chronic Hero Syndrome: Goose notes that whenever anyone needs help, with anything, he's immediately all over it.
Color-Coded Characters: Though not actually green, he's depicted as such in art.
Dare to Be Badass: Manages to give an epic speech in chapter 48 that coaxes Fred Fazbear to break through his denial that something is wrong with Jeremy Human's and help them confront Nisha.
Dark and Troubled Past: At first all he remembers is that he lost his job due to a work-related injury, sold everything he had to get by, and spent a couple of years homeless. But it's much, much darker than even that: he's the actual Mike Schmidt from Weaver's FNaFverse, transported to the Roommates 'verse by ways unknown.
Declaration of Protection: Tells Goose that he feels the instinctive urge to look after her and the others, like a guardian. And swears to keep his friends safe as the new night guard, during the epilogue.
Delinquent Hair: Gets his head shaved into a mohawk and dyed blue so he can cosplay Bob from Legend of Bob. Though he washes the dye out, it obviously takes a while for his hair to grow back. Quasi-Parental Substitute April hates it on sight.
Hidden in Plain Sight: Despite being the only human in a World of Funny Animals, he goes around in plain sight by claiming to be an ape with a condition that's cost him most of his hair.
I Choose to Stay: After finding photos that prove he comes from the Freddy Fazbear world, he burns them without a second thought, assuring Faz that this world is his real home.
Informed Flaw: He's mentioned as bring overweight several times, but illustrations show him to be pretty normal in build.
Interspecies Romance: Even though they don't know that he's really a human, instead presuming him to be a disfigured ape, Mike's status as a different species in no way dismisses the females who express interest in him. Heck, for Bonbon, it's a turn on!
Irony: After having been the night guard tormented by the animatronics in Freddy Fazbear's, chapter 50 reveals that he's decided to accept a job as the night security agent for Marion's apartment complex.
Laser-Guided Amnesia: Mike remembers quite clearly that he was laid off from his job after a work-related injury; however, when he's asked what his job actually was, he draws a complete blank.
Neat Freak: Downplayed. Mike sees cleaning as a good way to be helpful and takes the opportunity to do so when he can. Some people really need the help.
Oblivious to Love: He just shrugs off all of their attention, presuming it's just friendly teasing. Even when Bonnibel and Bonbon kiss him, he comes up with non-romantic explanations for their doing so. That said, by chapter 50, he's more than capable of teasing back in the spirit of friendship.
Open Mouth, Insert Foot: Mike means well, but he has a tendency to say things that inadvertently offend his friends.
Real After All: Mike actually starts to wonder if his memories of coming from another world are just delusions, only to be presented with photographic proof that he really is from a world of humans and used to "work" with insane, animatronic versions of his new friends.
Ship Tease: Has received particularly strong ship-teasing with several of the Chicas and Bonnies. Taken to a new level at the end of chapter 43, where he ends up sharing a bed with Bonbon and Beanie... at the same time. It's completely innocent, but still.
Troubled Backstory Flashback: Has a few over the course of the story, particularly after visiting Jeremy Human's.
Vague Age: Averted. He's 24, or within a year of it.
Your Costume Needs Work: To his bemusement, he gets told this at Humiecon in chapter 43, where a gorilla named Wilson Munch asserts that "real" humans should have tails – admittedly, a nearby donkey gets into a short argument about this claim. Taken up to eleven when he fails to even place third in the "Most Realistic Human" contest, to the outrage of every single attendant there.
Apartment 87-B: "The Misfits"
Frederick, aka "Freddy"
Based on: Toy Freddy
A true Renaissance bear: skilled chef, artist and weightlifter. Gentle and agreeable, but has difficulty communicating.
Beary Friendly: He's a sweet, friendly, all-around nice sort of guy, even though he's a great big bear.
Beware the Nice Ones: He's normally gentle and agreeable, but he's also a weightlifting bear. Getting him ticked off isn't something you want to do. As seen when he crushes Jeremy's head in chapter 49.
Big Damn Heroes: Saves Mike from death at Jeremy's hands and kills the malevolent humanimatronic.
The Big Guy: Between his natural bear bulk and the constant weightlifting that he does, Frederick is the only guy around bigger and more imposing than Mr. Fazbear.
Declaration of Protection: Pulls one off without saying a word.
Facepalm of Doom: He kills Jeremy by grabbing the bot's head in both hands and squeezing it until he crushes Jeremy's Cranial Processing Unit.
Serious Business: He's very set in his ways when it comes to the kitchen, which makes it hard to work alongside someone else (even someone as good as Chichi). He even prefers to clean up entirely by himself, though he eventually realizes he can't stop Mike from trying to help. Also, he thinks Mexican cuisine is the work of demons and barbarians.
Supreme Chef: He's famous as the best chef in all of the apartment complex.
Tranquil Fury: Although placid most of the time, he's quite aware of what Jeremy Human's has done to the others, and is quietly furious.
The Unintelligible: Technically, he speaks perfectly fluently. The problem is that the only language he speaks is French, and that doesn't seem to exist as a language in this world. Even Mike thinks it's "some strange gibberish language".
Subverted for a Bond One-Liner in chapter 49: "I want to look the devil in his eye."
Chiclet, aka "Chica"
Based on: Toy Chica
The de facto matriarch of 87-B, this friendly, brash and outgoing hen lost her beak in an accident.
Decomposite Character: Like Goose, she's based on the canon's Toy Chica, specifically inheriting the original's lack of a beak.
Facial Horror: Her beak is simply gone, leaving her with an uncannily flat face with scarring around her "lips".
Freudian Slip: In chapter 50, to tease Mike, she gives him a borderline pornographic swimsuit magazine. Except she wasn't looking at what she was buying, and it turns out to be a hen-focused magazine called "Spring Chickens". Naturally, Mike wastes no time in teasing her about the possible implications of her presenting him with a magazine full of hens, especially hens that he claims look just like her, much to her chagrin.
Hard-Drinking Party Girl: Used to be one.
Noodle Incident: How she lost her beak is never specified, although in mini #6 she claims that the accident was her own fault.
Team Mom: She's not entirely thrilled with taking care of everyone else, but someone's got to do it.
Toothy Bird: Like the original Chica.
Bonnibel, aka "Bonnie"
Based on: Toy Bonnie
Though this timid, lop-eared bunny is easily frightened, she cares deeply for her friends.
The Big Damn Kiss: Lays one on Mike out of the blue in chapter 33.
Decomposite Character:
To the canon's Toy Bonnie: She and Bonbon directly correlate to Toy Bonnie in different ways, but Toy Bonnie's status as male is given to Bonworth, a Bonnie derivative.
Like Beanie and Bonbon, she has certain aspects of "Weaver Bonnie", The Weaver's unique yandere-esque female interpretation of Bonnie. Bonnibel has the misfortune of being saddled with "Weaver Bonnie's" mentally ill state and mood swings.
Hallucinations: Takes part in a drug trial that makes her have these as a side-effect.
No Medication for Me: Mike notes that her pill bottles have a layer of dust on them. Once this is brought to her roommates' attention, they start making sure she takes them regularly.
Noodle Incident: It's not really clear what happened to her at Jeremy Human's, but it seems to be related to Jeremy himself and his "awful black eyes".
Nothing but Skin and Bones: Due to her tendency to peck at her food, she is described as very spindly, with her skinniness emphasised by her baggy clothes.
Poster-Gallery Bedroom: Although she doesn't have posters, the handmade dolls and frilly dresses in her room reflect her girlish personality.
Womanchild: Her fragile personality leaves her rather child-like.
Foxglove, aka "Mangle"
Based on: Mangle
This melodramatic, enigmatic fox is quite the entrepreneur, with a keen eye for fashion.
Air-Vent Passageway: Is notorious for constantly moving around in the ducts rather than using the doors.
Ambiguous Gender: Very feminine, but never given a specific gender, and referred to only by name or as "the fox" (not "the vixen", as Mango is). Even in the saucy drawings done by Weaver, never shown from the front in any identifying way. Mike doesn't seem to notice or care very often.
Mangle: A gentleman never asks, and a lady never tells!
Mike: Oh, yeah? And which are you?
Mangle: (sniffs) Really, now you're just being rude.
Chubby Chaser: Attracted to Mike the way he is, and gets irritated when he talks about losing weight.
Covert Pervert: Uses Mike's time modelling to privately fondle and ogle him. In Bonbon's mini, she implies that Foxglove also took some pictures that Mike "probably wouldn't approve of". Mangle's own mini reveals that the fox apparently has an online pay-per-view erotica website that Mangle uses to upload naked pictures of people — pictures that are taken without their awareness; the mini even revolves around Mangle's efforts to get some good nude butt-shots of Mike.
Decomposite Character: Of the canon Mangle; this fox gets the Ambiguous Gender and the Air-Vent Passageway, along with More Teeth than the Osmond Family.
Don't Look At Me: Has a freak-out when Mike accidentally sees them without their Snuggie on (but still fully-clothed).
Freakiness Shame: Has real problems with people seeing their unobscured body, and usually wears a Snuggie outside their room. Mike can't see anything wrong with them and says that they are, in fact, beautiful.
Leg Focus: Mike points out that she has nice legs and hips.
Noodle Incident: It's never stated what exactly happened to them at Jeremy Human's, but it's left them with serious body issues.
No Sense of Personal Space: Constantly invades Mike's personal space. Hypocritically, the fox freaks out when Mike comes into their room one time.
Prehensile Tail: Her dedicated mini reveals they can manipulate things with their tail, even using it to snap photos with a camera.
The Rival: Foxglove and Mangifera have a personal distaste for each other.
Apartment 93-B: "The Wreck"
Faz
Based on: Phantom Freddy
Little is known about this tired, run-down bear. He keeps mostly to himself.
Beary Friendly: At first he seems apathetic and miserable (probably due to coming off a round of agonizing surgeries), but he quickly warms up to Mike, and shows a friendlier attitude over the course of the story.
The Big Guy: He may be in a terrible condition, but he's still a bear.
Covered with Scars: Between the damage from the springlock suit and the surgeries he's received to recover, he's a mess.
Dented Iron: Although he clearly survived whatever it was that left him with multiple surgical scars and healing wounds all over his body, it's equally clear that it's taken a toll on his health. Nevertheless, he remains very big and very strong.
Eye Scream: Some illustrations show a scar going straight through his right eye, and said eye looks different from the other one, likely due to damage.
Jack of All Trades: Served as one for Jeremy Human's, performing tasks like engineering and security, and even getting on stage and singing a few times.
Made of Iron: Was inside a "springlock" suit when the safety catch broke. Miraculously, he survived both the multiple impalements and the long array of surgical treatments required to extract him and put him back together.
Nightmare Face: Has a skull-like face beneath his surgical mask, with no nose and several missing teeth. By the epilogue, he's filled out considerably.
Secret-Keeper: As of chapter 44, he's the only one aware that Mike isn't a "bald ape", but a dimension-traveling human from a parallel universe.
Scars Are Forever: Is absolutely covered in gruesome scars in various states of healing.
Signature Scent: Thanks to being covered in draining surgical wounds, he's mentioned as having a pretty rank smell.
Stealth Hi/Bye: Moves quickly and quietly enough to pull off a number of stealth "hi"s over the course of the story, much to Mike's startlement.
The Teetotaler: He's on so many meds, he can't drink alcohol.
These Are Things Man Was Not Meant to Know: Helps Mike realize just how horrifying the notion of his world would be to the others.
Thousand-Yard Stare: Is described as having one at first.
Trademark Favorite Food: Chapter 44 reveals that he's a huge fan of salmon meat, and possibly fish in general.
You Are Better Than You Think You Are: Tells this to Mike after finding out about Mike's real origins, assuring Mike that he's not just some "copy" of Safety Schmidt, and if anything, the humanitronic is a pathetic imitation of Mike.
Faz: "Mike, look. I worked with this thing. I spent days in a row in the same room with it, hours and hours watching it on my screens at night. I am more familiar with him than I am with you. I've known him for far longer. And without a doubt, you are more real than he could ever be. You're not a living version of him. He's a fake version of you. He's the shadow."
Cheeky "Chica" Weidlöd
Based on: Original Chica
A flirty, brazen, plus-sized hen with a taste for spicy food and saucy romance.
Above the Influence: When a drunken Mike decides to take her up on her standing offer to sleep with him, she tells him to ask when he's sober instead.
Big Beautiful Woman: She's on the plump side, and a bit skanky, but she's also described as attractive and confident in her looks despite it.
Big Fun: Plus-sized and always out for a good time.
Catchphrase: "Let's Eat!" — She's not too pleased when Bonworth steals it.
Decomposite Character: Like Chichi, she's based on specific aspects of the Original Chica, or at least "Weaver Chica". Specifically, Cheeky is based on the presentation of "Weaver Chica" as a food-loving party girl whose hedonistic traits have left their impact on her waistline, but haven't diminished her vitality or zest for life, which itself comes from Original Chica's "let's eat!" bib, rounded appearance, and the comments about Toy Chica's redesign being prompted by fears that Original Chica could be seen as supporting obesity.
Good Bad Girl: She's flirty and brazen to the point of coming off as a little slutty, but she's actually a really nice woman.
Meaningful Name: The name "Cheeky" is befitting for her brazenly casual demeanor.
While never mentioned in-story, Weaver confirmed elsewhere that her family name is Weidlöd, as in wide load.
The Medic: She's the one who takes care of cleaning up Faz, changing his bandages, and maintaining his sutures. Bonworth's extremely squeamish, and Foxy's...Foxy.
Sad Clown: It's ultimately revealed that Cheeky contracted cancer due to something she was exposed to at Jeremy Human's, and the dozens of surgeries she underwent have left her with permanent nerve damage. Also, whilst it's in remission now, the cancer could come back at any time. She doesn't explicitly say it, but it's an obvious inferral that her behavior is due to her wanting to seize the most out of life, because she knows it might not last very long for her.
Scars Are Forever: Her belly is covered in scars thanks to the surgeries for her cancer.
She Cleans Up Nicely: Cheeky tends to wear a lot of caked-on, old makeup and not bother taming her messy headfeathers. Mike sees her after a shower at one point and notes that she looks nice with with a clean face and slicked-back "hair".
Ship Tease: She's actually received the most of it with Mike during the first 40 chapters, with particularly prominent examples being when he makes it up to her for accidentally implying she was ugly and when he wakes up in her bed after getting drunk on a night out with some of the other male cast members.
Stout Strength: Chapter 49 reveals that, despite being so plump, she's strong enough to carry Nisha on her back singlehandedly. For comparison, Rackham's assessment was that it'd take at least three, maybe four people to haul the black bear to safety.
Toothy Bird: Like the original Chica.
Wrench Wench: Trained as an engineer.
Wrench Whack: Her preferred weapon is a wrench big and heavy enough for Mike to have trouble lifting it.
Bonworth
Based on: Original Bonnie
Cheeky's best friend and Beanie's older brother, this corny, friendly, energetic bunny has a great sense of humor.
An Arm and a Leg: His legs were crushed to the point they had to be amputated and replaced with prosthetics, or otherwise mended with subdermal pins and rods.
Badbutt: Bonworth's idea of being rebellious as a teen was to ditch class and get root beer floats with his posse...at four P.M., when class was already out.
Big Brother Instinct: Even during his Jerk Jock days, Beanie had him wrapped around her little finger.
Disco Dan: As a teen he had a thing for the 1950's, having a leather jacket, a pompadour, and a quote from James Dean in his yearbook. He's grown out of the look, but he's still a bit old-fashioned, particularly in speech.
Jerk Jock: Was a track and field champ in high school, and Rackham recalls that he was "such a dick".
Minnesota Nice: Although not from Minnesota, he's got the squeaky-clean upbeat attitude and unwillingness to talk about unpleasant matters.
Nice Guy: A buck that wouldn't hurt a fly unless forced to. If he appears hostile in some way or another, something's going on, like him trying to make Mike feel welcomed in 93-B while working on false information that Mike was a rough-and-tumble fella.
Stronger Than They Look: His arms have a good grip and heavy weight to them which lets him pull and hit pretty hard. Harder than he plans to, sometimes.
The Teetotaler: By choice.
Haddock, aka "Foxy"
Based on: Foxy
A silly fox with a great imagination who plays pirate all day long. He loves adventure and telling stories.
The Cloudcuckoolander Was Right: Manages to pass on a vital clue that leads Mike to a secret passageway that saves the group's lives in chapter 49.
Fighting from the Inside: In chapter 48, he struggles to talk to Mike coherently and give him valuable advice, still couched in pirate terms.
Manchild: Haddock acts like a small child, leaping from topic to topic and swaying in and out of focus. Becomes tragic when you learn that this is due to severe brain damage.
O.O.C. Is Serious Business: He has a rare lucid moment one night during a conversation with Mike, talking about his first night at sea and contemplating his own mortality. Mike finds himself deeply affected by it.
Tagalong Kid: Although an adult, he more-or-less fulfills this role among the characters, requiring a lot of looking-after and occasionally getting himself into trouble the others have to deal with. Bonus points for being very small, physically, and apparently quite young.
Talk Like a Pirate: Played for drama as it's the only way he can talk most of the time.
Tap on the Head: Subverted. When he was performing maintenance on a humanitronic, a panel gave way and slammed shut on his head. It left him permanently brain-damaged.
The Teetotaler: He's on so many meds, he can't drink alcohol. Probably a bad idea, anyway.
Apartment 93-A: "The Standard"
Mr. Fred Fazbear
Based on: Original Freddy
A strict, no-nonsense businessbear. Well-respected, and the unspoken community leader.
Bears Are Bad News: He's not a bad guy, really, but he's grim, no-nonsense, and frankly kind of opinionated, so he can be a real jerk.
Beneath the Mask: A good deal of his present personality seems to be an unhealthy coping mechanism in regards to Goldie's death and the injuries Jeremy Human's has inflicted on his friends, and we see see hints of a more gentle, even playful, side on occasion. By the epilogue, with his demons put to rest, he seems a good deal more easygoing.
The Big Guy: Mentioned as being very intimidating in height and build.
Big Ol' Eyebrows: Inverted. He's mentioned to have (and drawn with) very small eyebrows.
Bunny-Ears Lawyer: Whatever kind of grump he my be outside work, on the job he's a model manager with enthusiasm and talent that shows this is clearly his calling in life. You'd think he was actually supposed to be there or something.
Former Teen Rebel: Was apparently a wild, hedonistic youth, until the death of his brother forced him to grow up fast.
Jerk with a Heart of Gold: Generally rather brusque, and disliked Mike at the start, but still allows him to stay in 93-A when he has no place to go, and regards his roommates as family.
Lethal Chef: His roommates try to make themselves scarce when he cooks his family's liver sausage casserole. Apparently he's a bad cook in general, as well.
Parental Substitute: Although not nearly old enough to be their dad, and in fact younger than some of them, Fred has sort of taken on this role in regards to the others in the complex. Mike is able to keep the members of 87-A on the straight-and-narrow in regards to cleaning by threatening to tell Fred on them, for example. And then there's his reaction when Mike jokes about making out with Bonnie.
The Reveal: Because of certain Noodle Incidents early in the founding of Jeremy Human's, legal documentation was drawn up that makes it impossible for majority shareholdership to be passed on unless two of the co-founders — Fred, Goldie and April — puts their signatures on the documentation. Because of this, and because April had forgotten it, Nisha was not legally entitled to run Jeremy Human's for April, and this documentation can be used to prove Nisha has been embezzling.
Vague Age: One of three characters for whom this is averted, being outright stated to be 24.
Younger Than He Looks: Due to his behavior and temperament, Mike initially assumes him to be in his forties. He's not even 30 years old.
Chica, aka "Chichi"
Based on: Original Chica
Earnest and optimistic, this skilled baker runs a business from home. A motherly hen, despite her youth.
Big Eater: She can pack away three or four bags of fast food in a meal.
Decomposite Character: Like Cheeky, she's based on specific aspects of the Original Chica, or at least "Weaver Chica". Specifically, Chici inherited Chica's implied skill as a baker and her friendly demeanor.
Oblivious to Love: Seems unaware that Rackham's carried a torch for her since high school.
Playing Against Type: In mini #9, after Marion offers to take over the mandatory Cleric slot in their game of Sapiens & Strongholds, she chooses to play a Barbarian. Much to the bemusement of the other players, who have a hard time picturing gentle, motherly Chichi as a rage-fueled grunting savage of a Barbarian Hero. Turns out, she's quite good at it.
Serious Business: Normally quite sweet-natured, but get her in the kitchen and she turns into a little dictator.
Shout-Out: In Chapter 45, Mike likens Chichi in full-on competitive chef mode to Gordon Ramsay.
Supreme Chef: Chichi is a really talented baker, and considered the only one amongst the four apartments who can match Frederick in the kitchen.
Toothy Bird: Like the original Chica.
Bonita, aka "Beanie" or "Beanpole"
Based on: Original Bonnie
A dry, witty, sarcastic bunny. She appears lazy, but she works hard at her taxing night-shift job. Enjoys playing games.
Alternate Self: She's essentially this universe's version of the player character from the canon universe, give her status as night-shift security guard at Jeremy Human's.
Closet Geek: She's actually a huge fan of a D&D pastiche called Sapients & Strongholds, but she does her best to keep anyone from finding out.
Deadpan Snarker: She's a very droll bunny.
Decomposite Character:
To the canon Bonnie: she's a rabbit, but is female in contrast to the canon Bonnie being identified as male.
Like fellow "Female Bonnies" Bonnibel and Bonbon, she has certain aspects of "Weaver Bonnie", from The Weaver's original FNaF comics, most notably her gender and frank attitude. Beanie's matching slim, purple appearance suggests that she is more or less Weaver Bonnie's direct counterpart, like how Safety Schmidt is Mike's counterpart.
Game Master: She runs a weekly game of the local D&D equivalent with some of her friends and roommates, and has done for years. In chapter 50, she reveals that with the release of a new edition of Sapients & Strongholds, the game's become popular enough at the local gaming store that she's able to get a job as a professional GM.
Honor Before Reason: Keeps her incredibly dangerous job as night guard at the place that maimed her brother for life, apparently out of a desire to prove something. She finally quits after it nearly gets her killed.
Killer Game Master: As revealed in the first mini, Rough Start, her desire to "win the game" made her a less than pleasant Game Master for Sapients & Strongholds back when she started a group for it in High School. She got better, as it was mostly inexperience. That said, in mini #9, when they enter one room, she goes into a lavish description of the chamber... and then doesn't mention the giant dragon sleeping in the center of it until Mike makes a perception check.
Munchkin: Admits at the end of mini #9 that, whilst she doesn't play often and is usually the gamesmaster, she did enjoy a stint as this whilst play S&S 3e with another group.
Skewed Priorities: Played for laughs in the mini #3, Personal Purchase, where she treats buying a new set of dice as something embarrassing and deeply personal as, say, buying a new sexual toy, and then casually announces to Mike afterwards that she's also gotta grab some new panties.
Vague Age: Averted. In mini #3, she mentions that she’s 22.
Rackham
Based on: Foxy
This fox is suspicious, irritable and easily-provoked, but deeply loyal to his friends. Like Haddock, he's fond of pirates.
Amazon Chaser: In spite of his long-standing crush on Chichi, he seems to gain some appreciation for Cheeky after seeing her in action. Maybe chickens are just his type?
Decomposite Character: Downplayed, but he serves as this to Haddock. In the early days of the fandom, many assumed that Foxy might be female, due to the Ambiguous Gender and Gender-Blender Name. That trait lives on in the form of Rackham's crossdressing.
Eye Scream: Wears a patch over one eye. We later find out he lost it due to battery acid in the same incident that blinded Goose.
Fingore: One of his hands has had to be replaced with a hook prosthetic. It was chemically burned into uselessness shielding Goose's eyes, forcing the doctors to amputate.
Interspecies Romance: He's got a crush on Chichi, and is hostile towards Mike at first because he doesn't want any competition for her.
Last-Name Basis: A newspaper Mike gets later on regarding the acid squirt incident that destroyed his hand says his first name is Archibald. Everyone just calls him "Rackham" or "Foxy".
Mythology Gag: In chapter 49, he makes a move to create a distraction for the others. Which move? Run down a hallway on a dead sprint with his jaw flapping around like it's dislocated, much like animatronic Foxy does.
Player Archetypes: He's a Specialist who always wants to play a pirate character.
Wholesome Crossdresser: Mike accidentally encounters him in drag in chapter 40. We never find out why he was crossdressing, though.
Because he enjoys it?
Goldie Fazbear
Based on: Golden Freddy
Fred Fazbear's polite and amiable twin brother, who created Jeremy Human's.
Catchphrase: "Tomorrow is another day." It's more important than it seems.
Cruel and Unusual Death: When his ghost pops up to visit Mike in chapter 40, he decides to wear his "death scars" for emphasis, which are... not pleasant. To quote the paragraph: "His once-pristine fur has discolored, turning a pale, sickly olive. His head's tilted at an unnatural angle, his jaw hanging detached from the rest of his skull, split in a crimson smear of gore as if his face had been torn apart by a hacksaw. His eye sockets are empty, dark pits that seem to draw you in like black holes. His left ear is completely missing, leaving tattered bits of sinew and muscle dangling from the open wound in its place." We learn in chapter 46 that his skull was sheared in two.
Dead All Along: It's ultimately revealed that Goldie has been dead for years, which Mike is understandably rather perturbed to find out, given they've been speaking.
Mythology Gag:
His status as a ghost matches up with Golden Freddie's ghostly antics in the games proper.
His grisly manifestation in chapter 40 is based on Phantom Freddy and his mutilations in FNaF 3.
Identical Twin ID Tag: Goldie and Fred are the spitting image of each other, save for Goldie's buttercup yellow fur.
Office Romance: Mango mentions that there were rumors about him and April being in one.
The Quiet One: When Mike first meets him, Goldie explains he likes to keep to himself and that's why they haven't spoken until now.
Walking Spoiler: We can't reveal much about Goldie that doesn't become drastically important to the plot of the story.
Apartment 87-A: "The Careless Friends"
Peanut
Based on: Toy Freddy
Shy and soft-spoken, this bear's clumsy nature hides a heart of gold. He deeply admires Mr. Fazbear.
Dumb Is Good: He's a sweet guy, but not exactly the brightest bulb.
Hero Worship: Of Fred. He dresses like him as best as he can, and imitates his mannerisms.
Horrible Judge of Character: Even after Nisha is arrested, he keeps insisting that she's a wonderful, honest lady.
Innocently Insensitive: Suggests that April allow Nisha, who embezzled money from her for years and more recently robbed her friends by cutting the settlement benefits they live on, to move in with her, oblivious to April's mounting fury over the subject.
Manchild: Peanut, in many ways, acts like a little kid, tending to expect others to wait on him and look after him.
Sleepy Head: Although Bonbon insists it's just because winter has shown up, Peanut falls asleep very readily and has a hard time waking up.
Spanner in the Works: Because he genuinely is rather naive and foolish, Peanut unwittingly clues Mike in on the facts that not only is Nisha the CEO of Jeremy Human's, but also that she fooled April to sign over her shares to Nisha.
Strong Family Resemblance: Subverted; as seen in chapter 50, his mother resembles a polar bear, and he has a younger brother, Bonson, who's a rabbit. Mike privately assumes that Bonson is adopted, but admits to himself they could be biologically related for all he knows, and resolves to bring the topic up with Faz when he has the time.
Goose
Based on: Toy Chica
This hen, an old friend to Chiclet, is lazy but always accommodating. Somewhat oblivious, she has trouble seeing what's right in front of her.
Decomposite Character: Alongside Chiclet, she's one of the two characters who embodies Toy Chica from the canon, with her blindness being reminiscent of Toy Chica's removed eyes.
Eye Scream: Her blindness stems from an incident when the humanitronics suffered a battery overload and exploded in jets of acid, which chemically burned her eyes and made them useless.
Hard-Drinking Party Girl: According to the other Chicas, she was quite a party lover in her youth.
Pun: At the end of chapter 41, after a heart to heart talk, Mike flinches away from her wing-hand and can only mutter to Mangle about having found why she's called "Goose". note 
Last-Name Basis: Or, in fact, middle name basis. Her full name is Caroline Goose-Mayfeather, according to the newspaper on the humanimatronic incident that blinded her with a squirt of battery acid.
Mellow Fellow: Mike notes that she makes Cheeky look high-strung by comparison.
Toothy Bird: Like the original Chica.
Bonbon
Based on: Toy Bonnie
This loud bunny is a bundle of energy who loves cartoons, staying in shape, and making new friends. Obsessed with humans.
Adult Child: Never seems to have really grown out of that hyperactive neonate stage.
Ascended Fanboy: In a way; her biggest dream is to have her ears rubbed by a human, but humans are fictional in her world. She gets her wish anyway.
The Big Damn Kiss: Lays one on Mike about halfway through chapter 38.
Decomposite Character:
As with Bonnibel, she's based on certain aspects of Toy Bonnie.
Like all of the Bonnies, she's female, whilst Bonworth is male, a reflection of both Original and Toy Bonnie's status as an Ambiguous Gender character that was ultimately proclaimed to be male.
She shares certain aspects of "Weaver Bonnie" with Bonnibel and Beanie. In Bonbon's case, she inherited "Weaver Bonnie's" perverse obsession with Mike, which in Bonbon manifests as her hardcore humie fandom status and her being the one Bonnie explicitly stated as being sexually attracted to Mike.
This resemblance is heightened by her jealousy-fueled, aggressive intervention when another Humiecon attendant, a hen named Helen, gets too grabby with Mike for her liking.
Fantastic Arousal: She has a huge thing for getting her ears played with, which is actually part of the sexual appeal of humans for her. She melts down in what is practically a scene of G-Rated Sex at the end of chapter 43, when Mike gives her an ear-rub.
Has a Type: As she states in her mini, whilst she'd love a boyfriend who could "pass" as a human himself, the most essential traits she's looking for are that, one, he can accept her interests, and two, he's not taller than her — much to her own grievance, as the best "passers" in the humie fandom tend to be gorillas and thus a lot bigger than her. This is why Mike catches her eye; he's an incredible adept "passer", doesn't think she's weird for being a humie, and he's actually shorter than her if you count her ears.
Heel Realization: At the end of chapter 43, she has a big breakdown with Mike about how much of herself she recognizes in Helen, and all of it things that she hates.
Interspecies Romance: In her mini, she admits that she finds Mike to be very attractive, and would happily go for him.
Otaku: Although she's also a fitness freak, Bonbon is obsessed with humie animation, which is clearly an in-universe analogue to Japanese animation. To heighten the resemblance, she even fits the classic otaku model of subtitle elitism, although she's not arrogant enough about subbing's superiority as to detract from her likability.
Sad Clown: Although she tries not to let it get her down, she's faced a lot of prejudice over her "childish" and "freaky" interests. When she mistakenly believes Mike is finally harassing her over her humie fixation, she bursts into heartbroken tears, ranting about how she thought he was different.
Shout-Out: At one point, Mike indirectly compares her to a "brony". Her entire "humie" interest can also be seen as a more direct parallel to the Furry Fandom.
Mangifera, aka "Mango"
Based on: Mangle
This arts-and-crafts loving fox is a teacher by trade and a gossip by nature. A bit flighty, but always upbeat.
Big Beautiful Woman: A plump, "shortstacked", but adorable and excitable vixen who's eager to educate and create.
Character Tic: Her tail wags when she's happy.
Covert Pervert: Albeit less covert than Foxglove. She admits that she wants to get Mike's measurements, not just for the costume she's helping make for him, but for "other reasons" as well.
Decomposite Character: Along with Foxglove, of the canon Mangle. This vixen gets the arts-and-crafts theme (in, thankfully, a different way), and the association with children.
Double Entendre: Almost every word she says relating to her tutoring sessions can be read as either totally innocent or incredibly filthy. Only Beanie, judging by the comics, seems to find anything disturbing about this.
Eye Scream: Amongst Fritzine's horrifying collection is an eyeball in a jar labeled "Mangifera". Many fans presumed she had a false eye to cover it up, until she denies any mutilations on her person in chapter 45. She did leave her arts and crafts supplies in the pizza place, in the corner that became the Bot Repair Bay; Fritzine was using Mango's jars to hold the "unauthorized parts" she removed.
Mango: I assure you, I've still got both peepers.
The Rival: She and Foxglove have a dramatic and flamboyant rivalry with each other.
Other Characters
Marion
Based on: The Marionette
The geeky, high-strung landlord of the apartment complex. Not particularly gifted in social graces.
Ambiguously Human: Outside of being too gangly to be healthy, he looks the part. However, humans are fictitious in this universe, and his species is never stated.
Attention Whore: A huge part of Beanie's dislike for Marion is because he evidences this behavior whilst playing Sapiens & Strongholds.
Expy: His artwork depicts him as essentially looking like The Marionette, though in mini #9, it's noted that his "face" is actually a mask that he wears due to religious custom.
The Friend Nobody Likes: Emphasized in mini #9, where nobody is really happy when Mike inadvertently lets Marion know about their local Sapients & Strongholds game, causing him to invite himself along. Even at the end of the mini, despite expressing sympathy for him, Mike is still in agreement that Beanie was justified in not wanting Marion to show up.
Mike: "Nah, you're completely justified in not wanting him to come back. He takes the game way too seriously, he calls all the shots — I felt like the party was following him around to bask in his glory and us having fun was merely a side effect of it all. And then there's all those patronizing compliments he doled out, all so we'd want to pat his back."
Sympathy for the Devil: In-Universe, although Mike agrees that Marion is a passive-aggressive Attention Whore, he also points out that Marion is completely alone; he doesn't have anything like the friendly cliques that the complex members have, and his work boils down to spending all his time cooped up in a little box of a front office filing paperwork and managing a community that he doesn't get to be a part of, except for when he drives his dinky little cart around to fix damages or lease new apartments. It makes sense he'd be desperate to try and get some kind of acceptance... he's just clearly not very good at it.
April Marchand May
Based on: Spring Bonnie/Springtrap
Requiring special care for her injuries, this taciturn rabbit is a good listener.
Berserk Button: She hates vulgar language, smacking the exasperated Mike for using the word "shit" in chapter 46. This may tie into that Parental Substitute role mentioned below.
Composite Character: She's based on both the original Spring Bonnie and on Springtrap, who are not the same character. This also serves as something of a Red Herring.
Death Glare: Gives Mike a truly impressive one-eyed version when Bonnibel kisses him.
Eye Scream: Her left eye burned with that side of her face.
Genre Blindness: April is smart enough to understand that the series of mysterious "accidents" happening to potential witnesses to corruption are no accident. She's not smart enough to connect them to the seeming idiot she put in charge of the company while she was away, who manages things from a private fund that she's never seen, or even consider that whoever was behind it might have accomplices.
Office Romance: Mango mentions that there were rumors about her and Goldie being in one.
Parental Substitute: Although not that much older than everyone else, she takes on something of a maternal role among the characters (including Mike). Apparently looking after the young is a rabbit thing.
Punny Name: She doesn't like it much when people note that her name may as well be "spring".
The Reveal:
Chapter 45 reveals that she was a co-founder of Jeremy Human's, as one of Goldie Fazbear's business partners.
Chapter 46 reveals that she's also suspicious of the trail of mutilations and implied deaths surrounding Jeremy Human's, and is trying to find out who's responsible.
Scars Are Forever: She's absolutely covered in extensive scarring that, as chapter 45 reveals, are due to being caught in a fire and badly burned by it.
Sense Loss Sadness: She's lost most of her sense of taste.
Signature Scent: Mike often notes that she smells like smoke and fresh rain, a scent he has a nostalgic attachment to.
Terse Talker: Her throat seems to still be recovering.
Dr. Carrol Rabbinson
The doctor on call for pretty much everyone in the apartment complex, and mother of Beanie and Bonworth. Seems strangely familiar...
Continuity Nod: She is strongly implied to actually be Ruby, going by a different name. Besides strongly resembling her, consider the following:
When Mike tells her that Fritzine has been apparently kidnapping people for use in some kind of horrific, Body Horror "experiments", she replies that she's all too familiar with that kind of thing.
Her unnamed husband appears in the family portrait to be a cat, with a bowtie obscuring his face in precisely the way that Tom's bandage blocked half of his. Said bandage was also made of police tape, and Carrol mentions that her husband is an officer.
Mike specifically comments on her flat chest. Ruby's A-Cup Angst was a Running Gag throughout Ruby Quest.
My Beloved Smother: Beanie thinks of her this way, but she does have completely valid reasons for not wanting anyone else in the family to get involved with Jeremy Human's after what happened to Bonworth.
Reasonable Authority Figure: Literally; she's the sanest, most stable and sensible adult in the series, but trusts people to take care of themselves. It helps that she's a doctor, of course.
Nisha Marigold
Based on: Nightmare
Female black bear who works at Jeremy Human's. May be more than she seems...
An Arm and a Leg: Jeremy tries to draw and quarter her in chapter 49 using the curtain-pulling system of the pizzeria's stage, but Mike manages to save her at the last moment. Still, she gets a dislocated shoulder, a broken arm and a broken leg leg out of it, and has to be carried out of the place.
Apologizes a Lot: She's always expressing how sorry she is for this and that.
Apparently Powerless Puppetmaster: April appointed her as the CEO to be a powerless puppet ruler, and she plays it up, always apologizing for how Corporate is making her do things. It's as far from the truth as it can get.
Bait the Dog: At first, it seems very charitable of her to indulge Fred's delusions by allowing him to come into the restaurant and act as a manager...but it turns out she was just gathering evidence that he was mentally unsound so she could potentially seize his shares in the company.
Beary Friendly: Despite being a towering female bear, she's very friendly when she interacts with Mike and especially Peanut.
Big Bad Duumvirate: A variation in that she's not consciously teamed up with somebody; she's stealing from the company and all of the apartment members, but she's not behind the deaths and mutilations: that's the Jeremy humanitronic's doing.
Big Beautiful Woman: She's described as "more curvy than trim, but not obese" and quite attractive.
The Bus Came Back: Showed up in chapter 37, and was then unmentioned until chapter 45.
Corrupt Corporate Executive: It's ultimately revealed that she's embezzling from the company.
Ditzy Secretary: Goldie's, before he died. In fact, even though most of it is feigned, she's still a bit ditzy – she leaves the keys in the front door while trying to escape with her embezzled funds.
Kick the Dog: She's been reducing the settlement payouts to former employees damaged by Jeremy's, as they come from the trust fund she's embezzling from.
King Incognito: Chapter 45 has Peanut reveal she's actually the CEO of the Jeremy Human's franchise.
Motive Misidentification: Mike and company deduce that Nisha has been planning a master scheme to seize control of the company funds the whole time, having murdered Goldie and attempted to do so to April as well, followed by planning the various "accidents" that befell potential witnesses. When they confront her with this, she's confused: she was embezzling money, but to get it to deal with some mobsters, and she had nothing to do with the murders and sabotages. It's a bit too late, though.
Nice Job Fixing It, Villain!: It's unclear why Nisha would tell Peanut about April signing over the shares to her, the one act that could spoil her entire plan, when she knows perfectly well how he tends to blab. Sure enough, he does. She never planned on staying with the company forever anyway, so it's not like she was trying to groom him as a successor.
Not Me This Time: Chapter 48 has her confess to the embezzlement, but insist she's innocent of being behind the mutilations and fatalities. It's implied that was Kilroy's plans behind her back... and then it turns out to be Jeremy Human's scheme.
Obfuscating Stupidity: Chapter 46 ends with Mike and April convinced she may very well be playing up the hapless, absent-minded idiot she seems to be in order to fool them. Chapter 48 reveals they were spot on the money.
Pet the Dog: Judging from Peanut's opinion of her, she always treated him quite kindly. She also takes the moment to assure Mike that, even if she's bound for the slammer because of his snooping, he was still a hero during the events of the climax for saving her from Jeremy's makeshift torture rack.
Verbal Tic: She stammers and trails off quite a bit, especially tending to go "Ahhhhn..."
Walking Spoiler: Because she's so integral to the climax of the plot, it's hard to say anything without giving away the game.
Kilroy Afton
Based on: William Afton
Male rat who helped Goldie Fazbear design the first generation humanitronics for Jeremy Human's. May be involved in what's going on...
The Alcoholic: Nisha makes a comment to this effect.
Bad Boss: Based on Haddock's story, Afton's the one who ordered him to work on a humanitronic in unsafe conditions, causing the incident that caused his brain damage.
Big Bad Wannabe: His main universe counterpart, William Afton, was a serial killing genius inventor who has died repeatedly and still manages to always come back. Kilroy, by comparison, dies like a chump off-screen without ever interacting with the cast.
Born in the Wrong Century: His portrait shows him dressed up like a freaking musketeer, and it's implied that this is his usual attire.
Corrupt Corporate Executive: April notes that she dislikes the rodent because he implemented very "questionable" safety cuts and design changes that April doesn't understand, which is why she suspects him of being behind everything.
Cruel and Unusual Death: The language used obfuscates it, but first he had his scalp torn off, and then he was fed into Jeremy's music box, which ground him up into a pulp. If he was lucky, then he was at least dead when he went in.
Hoist by His Own Petard: It's possible he planned to double-cross Nisha by getting her to come to the pizzaria at night with the money so he could then have Jeremy kill her before taking the money all for himself. Instead, Jeremy brutally kills him first.
The Man Behind the Man: Zigzagged; April believes he's the one really running the show (invoked), but Nisha reveals in chapter 48 that she intended for him to be her fall-guy (subverted). Furthering the subversion, it turns out that he was not directing the humanitronics like many fans assumed, but rather Jeremy was acting out of his own.
No OSHA Compliance: April mentions that he made a lot of questionable safety cuts.
Walking Spoiler: Because he shows up so late in the story, and he's so integral to its plot, it's hard to say anything without giving away the game.
We Hardly Knew Ye: He doesn't get mentioned until chapter 47, and never appears on-screen, having been Killed Offscreen by the time of chapter 48. Jeremy Human shows up wearing his scalp as a hat.
You Dirty Rat!: He's a humanoid rat and implied to be a Corrupt Corporate Executive.
Humanitronics
The Hostile Animatronics who star at Jeremy Human's Pizzeria.
Jeremy Human
The leader of the humanitronics and the namesake character of the pizzeria.
A.I. Is a Crapshoot: Chapter 49 reveals that he's been acting out on his own the whole time, because he wants to force the company to give him the key he needs to reprogram himself so that he can leave the pizzeria's grounds.
An Arm and a Leg: Frederick tears off his arm before he destroys him.
Big Bad: If you consider the band of humanimatronics as antagonists. Turns out he's behind all the injuries and deaths in the pizzeria and its sister location, including April's burn wounds and Goldie's death.
Card-Carrying Villain: Unlike Fritzine and Darky, Jeremy seems to be fully aware of what he's doing and relishing the chance to hurt living people, treating it as a big game. Taken to its climax in chapter 49, where he turns out to be the story's Big Bad.
Closed Circle: Like all humanitronics, he's programmed to be unable to leave the pizzeria. And oh, how he hates it.
Color-Coded Characters: Red and black.
Composite Character: He's a blend of Freddy Fazbear and The Puppet, hence his music box that he carries everywhere. His name also brings Jeremy Fitzgerald to mind.
Cranial Processing Unit: Frederick smashing his head to bits does him in for good.
Exact Words: After Fred gives him the passcode that will let him leave the pizzeria, he lets everyone go, as promised...after releasing his army of mish-mashes to kill them.
Genuine Human Hide: He shows up wearing Afton's scalp like a hat in chapter 48.
Glasgow Grin: Complete with More Teeth than the Osmond Family. What a child-friendly design!
Karmic Death: Killed his creator, Goldie, by ripping his head apart with his bare hands. He gets killed by Frederick, who does the homicidal bot in by crushing his Cranial Processing Unit with his bare hands.
The Leader: Among the humanitronics. Only Safety Schmidt could countermand his orders, and even then only on matters of safety or security.
The Man Behind the Man: All of those terrible accidents that hurt people, all of the deaths at the hands of humanitronics? It was all his doing. Why? Because he wanted freedom, and he figured he could get it by maiming and killing until the corporation was forced to agree to his demands.
Red and Black and Evil All Over: His paint-scheme is based on liberal applications of red and black, which only heightens his menacing appearance.
Red Eyes, Take Warning: His eyes glow red behind their sunglasses...
Sickly Green Glow: ...but when he's no longer bound to the pizzeria, they become this instead.
Slasher Smile: Has a permanent one of these.
Turned Against Their Masters: It's a Five Nights at Freddy's fanfic, what do you expect but Hostile Animatronics killing people? Jeremy is still a noteworthy case because he killed Goldie, the creator of Jeremy and his fellow humanitronics, which is the robotic equivalent of patricide.
Ungrateful Bastard: Fred gives him the programming key he wants. He then tries to kill the group anyway.
Villainous Breakdown: He goes berserk when Mike tricks him into sticking around long enough for April to trap him in the restaurant, screaming like a banshee and viciously attacking Mike.
Wolverine Claws: Afton apparently thought razor-tipped fingers would be a good addition to a robot in a kids' restaurant. Presumably he changed his mind after Jeremy scalped him.
Your Head A-Splode: How Frederick destroys him, with his bare hands no less.
Fix-It Fritzine
The only female humanitronic, a construction worker.
Canon Immigrant: The Weaver did a "Jeremy Human's" cast of humanitronics once before, but the comic featured "Fun-Time Fritz" as a Chica expy. In Roommates, we have Fix-It Fritzine instead.
Closed Circle: Like all humanitronics, she's programmed to be unable to leave the pizzeria.
Color-Coded Characters: Orange.
Cranial Processing Unit: Mike, Faz and Darky kill her by unscrewing her head from her body with a massive wrench in chapter 49. This serves as subtle Foreshadowing for Jeremy's death.
Creepy Souvenir: She's got a storage vault full of gory trophies from her victims, which she's stockpiling as "evidence" to convince the company to crack down harder on "unauthorized components" and "aftermarket parts".
Fantastic Racism: She absolutely detests "aftermarket parts", which she views as "shoddy, cheap, third-rate vendor trash", an insult to quality worksmanship.
Gadgeteer Genius: She created a small army of mix-and-match robots out of spare parts and invented the device that switched Schmidts.
Laser-Guided Amnesia: Has completely forgotten that Jeremy had her invent a device to send Safety Schmidt out of their world, and wonders where he went.
Logic Bomb: Inducing one of these causes her to do a hard reboot.
Mook Maker: Created an army of doll-sized "mash-ups" from spare parts to give Jeremy extra muscle.
Obliviously Evil: She doesn't realize she's killing and maiming people at night, she just thinks she's doing what the company would want her to do. Emphasized in chapter 49; Jeremy is deliberately malicious, Fritzine is just a dim-witted bot following her programs and being manipulated by the far more intelligent Jeremy.
Unusual Euphemism: She calls the various ears, tails, skins and so forth that she removes from her victims "aftermarket parts". Played with in that she's not trying to be euphemistic—she legitimately believes she's extracting unauthorized modifications from other humanitronics and not mutiliating living people to death.
Safety Schmidt
A safety inspector hooked into the building's security systems. Mysteriously missing.
By-the-Book Cop: Well, security/safety officer.
Chekhov M.I.A.: Nobody, not even the humanitronics themselves except Jeremy, know why Safety Schmidt has vanished, or where he went, and they're all rather concerned about his disappearance. The epilogue, chapter 51, reveals that whatever brought Mike to this universe caused them to switch places, and he's happily taken Mike's place at Freddy Fazbear's, since as an animatronic himself the native animatronics see no reason to attack him.
Closed Circle: Like all humanitronics, he's programmed to be unable to leave the pizzeria. Not on purpose, anyway.
Color-Coded Characters: Green.
Expy: He's supposed to fill Bonnie's place amongst the Hostile Animatronics.
Lantern Jaw of Justice: Mentioned as having one, and depicted with one in a few early illustrations.
Like a Duck Takes to Water: At Freddy Fazbear's, he doesn't have to worry about keeping an eye on the other animatronics, since they all share the same goal of working in a safe, successful restaurant, unlike his old job. Plus, they have no reason to kill him by stuffing him in a suit, which is nice.
Only Sane Man: From what we see, part of his job involved reining in the other humanitronics whenever they did something that would violate safety codes. Of course, Beanie (and other night guards) still had to watch out for him, so possibly zig-zagged.
Spanner in the Works: Although unaware of Jeremy Human's plans, Schmidt's firm devotion to keeping the restaurant safe (and the fact that his word overrode Jeremy's when it came to such matters) meant that he kept unwittingly interfering with them.
Technopath: Wired into the security system and cameras, according to an early piece of art.
Darky
A dark-skinned humanitronic with a hook for a hand, used to be on display as a "kid-friendly antagonist" for the rest of the humanitronics, trying to steal pizza and being stopped by Safety Schmidt or the others. He was put into storage due to lack of maintenance, but has been brought back out to fill Safety Schmidt's shoes whilst the other is missing.
A.I. Is a Crapshoot: There are strong implications that, unlike the more programming-defined Fritzine and Safety Schmidt, Darky is actually a fully sapient and aware humanitronic. Just like Jeremy himself.
Closed Circle: Like all humanitronics, he's theoretically programmed to be unable to leave the pizzeria. However, this is averted, likely due to the same glitches that make him truly sapient.
Color-Coded Characters: Dark brown.
Expy: Of Foxy.
Dark Is Not Evil: Ironically, despite Beanie's fear of him, he actually has a very civil conversation with her and Mike after the latter chooses to listen to Darky's protests against being blinded. Beanie insists that he can't be trusted, though, citing his "programming glitches"... which, ironically, may be why he wasn't hostile in the first place. Emphasized in that he turns out to be the only bot in the pizzeria who doesn't want to hurt anybody, even coming to their aid against Fritzine.
Harmless Villain: Much like Hamburglar or Captain Crook this was his role. He'd swipe jewelry and food from patrons, then get "arrested" by another humanitronic and forced to give them back along with extra tokens and prizes. Mike is rather peeved to hear about this.
Innocently Insensitive: His name is a racial slur for black people and his entire intended character is a caricature of African American "gangsta" stereotypes. The only reason he qualifies for this is the fact that said stereotypes don't exist In-Universe due to being in a reality where humans don't exist. Mike even comments on the fact that the inhabitants of the Roommates-verse wouldn't understand what they did was offensive.
Obliviously Evil: Beanie's other big excuse for not trusting Darky; even if he himself doesn't want to hurt them, should he accidentally mention to Fritzine or Jeremy that the security guard is present, it'd set those bots off after her. His capabilites in chapters 49 and 50 imply that he knows better than to do this, and so Beanie was cautious for no reason.
Stereotype: Lampshaded by Mike In-Universe, who grumbles to himself about the obvious 90s Afro-American "gangsta" stereotype being used for Darky, although he grudgingly concedes that in a universe where humans don't exist, the natives obviously wouldn't understand why Darky is such an unpleasant caricature.
Token Good Teammate: He's shown from the start to be very polite and harmless by himself, and he deliberately comes to the group's aid against Fritzine in chapter 49, implying that he was never involved in the murders and mutilations that Jeremy was carrying out.
What Happened to the Mouse?: He disappears after helping to kill Fritzine, with nobody being sure of what happened to him. That said, it's implied in chapter 50 that he's gone out into the real world and is now making his own way in the world with him finding out where Mike was hospitalized and going in and back out totally incognito.
