This page describes the Fridge Sub Wiki pages for works. There are five main types of Fridge.


Fridge Brilliance - When you realize that something that seemingly didn't make sense at first makes perfect sense once you remember certain details or consider explanations that aren't addressed within the work.
Fridge Heartwarming - When something lingers in your mind, and makes you sentimental as you think about it after the fact.
Fridge Horror - When something becomes terrifying after thinking about it too much or getting older and realizing just how freaky it is.
Ascended Fridge Horror - When an old Fridge Horror concept becomes a major part later.
Fridge Logic - When you realize something weird not during the show, movie, game, etc., but sometime after it ends.
Fridge Sadness - When you realize sad implications about something after reading/watching it.
If you're looking for the "fridging" trope, see Stuffed into the Fridge.

Fridge Brilliance

Of course the real Big Bad isn't Ms. Marigold! Remember that she's based on Nightmare, who, while a legitimate threat (as is she, financially), is all in the Bite Victim's head, after all. What's Nightmare's description in FNAF World? "This is why you wake up." In fact, her embezzlement is ultimately what caused the victims of Jeremy Human's to wake up from their self-imposed complacent pity party.
Bonbon being the bunny most attracted to Mike actually does make sense if one remembers that, in FNAF canon, "Toy Bonnie" was the first edition of the Bonnie model; Weaver Bonnie may have her yandere on for Mike, but she would have inherited that from the female Toy Bonnie.
Fridge Horror

We're never told what happened to Mangle, but Frederick's drawing of them cowering before something looming over them implies that they ran afoul of a humanitronic. If it was Fritzine, perhaps she, ahem, removed a few...parts from them (external or internal) and the trauma affected their body image/gender identity.
Fridge Sadness

Roth/Ruth was right not to let someone who seemed to be an unauthorized lunatic serve cake at Jeremy's. However, she a) made a scene in the middle of a busy children's restaurant with loud swearing included and b) stormed off to get the day manager, allowing said "lunatic" to serve the cake anyway. Although she seemed to very much need her job and want to keep it, it would have been pretty unlikely, even if Fred and April didn't shut down the franchise in the epilogue.
