Roommates: Memoirs of the Hairless Ape is a long-running Five Nights at Freddy's Alternate Universe Fic written by Pokemaniacal (not that one) in collaboration with and based on works by The Weaver, who also provides illustrations.

Told in Second-Person Narration owing to its origin as an idea on the Image Boards, it tells the story of you, average guy Mike Schmidt. You're not doing so hot. You're overweight, down on your luck after a work-related injury and living on the street just before the story begins, but at least you have your pride and a sense of basic decency. Did we mention that you're the only human in this World of Funny Animals and everyone thinks you're some sort of shaved chimp? Since beggars can't be choosers, you jump at the first offer of a home you get. You just didn't count on the type of roommates you would be getting, exactly. But don't worry. They have a place for you.

Formerly housed on Pastebin, it was migrated to Archive of Our Own, and can be seen here. Note that it's marked NSFW, for violence.

In addition to the core story, there is a slowly-growing number of dedicated minis, told from the perspective of other characters and relating events important to them, present or historical, that Mike has no perspective on.

#1: Rough Start — A historical piece in which Beanie, Bonworth and several of their friends play a game of Sapients & Strongholds.
#2: Donut Break — Chiclet buys herself a treat and spends some time interacting with her new roommate, April. Takes place directly after Chapter 24 of the main story.
#3: Personal Purchase — Beanie stops to do some personal shopping before she has to get to work. Takes place directly after Chapter 25 of the main story.
#4: Nurse Cheeky — Cheeky tends to Faz's many injuries. Takes place roughly concurrently with Mini #3.
#5: Let Me Tell You About Humans — Bonbon tries to explain her humie fandom status to an unknown listener. Takes place roughly concurrently with Minis #3 and #4.
#6: Bonnibel's Bad Dream — Chiclet has to soothe a rattled Bonnibel after the rabbit wakes up with bad dreams. Takes place directly after Chapter 26 of the main story.
#7: Guy's Night Out — Mike takes Bonworth, Faz and Haddock out for a night on the town. Takes place directly after Chapter 28 of the main story.
#8: Funtime Foxglove — Mangle uses Mike's modelling session as an opportunity to work on her other little side-job. Takes place directly after Chapter 42 of the main story.
#9: Who Invited This Clown? — Beanie finds her regular game of Sapients & Strongholds disrupted when Marion wrangles an invitation into the group. Takes place in an interim between chapters 44 and 45 in the main story.
Also has two work-in-progress fan-made webcomics, one retelling the events of Roommates and the other taking place after the final chapter, found here and here, respectively.

This page is very much a work in progress, as the revised version of the fanfic is still in the editing phase. Character sheet is up and awaiting character-specific tropes. For sake of convenience, Mike will be referred to in third-person in the examples.

This fic provides examples of:
Accidental Misnaming: Mangle is constantly calling their roommates by the others' names, Mike (as the new guy) in particular.
In a subtly disturbing moment in chapter 30, Mike gets caught up impersonating Safety Schmidt and accidentally calls Beanie "Jeremy", due to the Jeremy Human mask she's wearing.
The FnaFverse animatronics keep referring to Safety Schmidt as "Mike," mostly out of habit.
Alliteration & Adventurers: The local roleplaying game of choice is Sapients & Strongholds. The obvious reference to Dungeons & Dragons is heightened by subtle comments made on the game, such as it currently being in its 5th edition and that 3rd edition was full of loopholes that munchkins loved to exploit.
Alternate Self: The "humanitronics" are this world's analogues to the classic FNaF animatronics. The core four — Jeremy Human, Safety Schmidt, Fritz Funtime and Darky — directly correspond to the original animatronics (Freddy Fazbear, Bonnie, Chica and Foxy, respectively), but with certain elements from other animatronics.
Also, the versions seen in this story differ somewhat to the original versions created by The Weaver; Fritz Funtime has been replaced by the feminine "Fix-It Fritzine" instead.
An Arm and a Leg: Unlike in the canon FNaF 'verse, Jeremy's humanitronics don't try to stuff people into too-tight exosuits. Instead, they see the indigenous Funny Animals as automatons with "unlicensed extraneous parts" and seek to "purify them" by removing them. This entails lopping off ears, feet, and possibly hands, peeling off the skin and carving faces into a more human-like shape by, for example, chopping off snouts and beaks.
Arc Words: "You can't help being broken like the rest of us." Bonnibel says it to Mike in chapter 3; she intends it to be comforting, but Mike finds it insulting and obsesses over it throughout his character arc. It eventually culminates in chapter 33, when Mike starts to come to terms with his own problems and apologises to Bonnie for acting like he was better than her.
Backup from Otherworld: Something had caused Jeremy Human to stop attacking Mike. It's implied that the interloper was Goldie, especially with how Jeremy referred to it.
Jeremy Human: Old man... nobody invited you!!
Big Bad: Who else but Jeremy Human himself?
Bond Villain Stupidity: Jeremy has several of the heroes, and Nisha, effectively at his mercy and cornered in the office. Instead of simply offing them there, he decides to wait for them to get killed by his new robotic underlings and arrange a fancy death for Nisha.
Bothering by the Book: Mike cites safety regulations at an aggressive Fritzine in his impersonation of Safety Schmidt. The stonewalling gets her to back off.
Brutal Honesty: In chapter 38, after unintentionally upsetting Bonbon by trying to ease into what he wants to say, Mike resorts to this to get his true intentions across:
Mike: "Your apartment's a mess, and you guys need to get your shit together before Goose slips on a banana peel and breaks her neck."
The Cameo: Several.
Caimon, Weaver's Cajun alligator girl from a separate project, shows up out of nowhere to provide some unsolicited, sage, but incomprehensible advice to Mike early on.
Candy and Cindy run the ice cream parlor down the street, and Mango mentions a kid she tutors who likes to draw on himself in permanent marker, which may be a reference to Blank.
In a plot-significant example, the Rabbinson siblings' parents are heavily implied to be Ruby and Tom. Technically, this makes it Spin-Offspring, as well.
Weaver's version of Mrs. Wilde makes a nameless cameo as a waitress.
Many characters show up in the background of Humiecon, notably Remmy Cormo and Nurse Giraffe (from Toybox Pals).
Catapult Nightmare: Taken to the extreme in chapter 32. Unlocking memories of his time at Freddy Fazbear's, a jolted-awake Mike initially can't distinguish his new friends from their murderous animatronic counterparts, resulting in him blitzing past them and hurting them in his freak-out.
Chekhov's Gun: The safe that took off Bonworth's limbs. Even the fact that it was introduced early on turns out to be relevant. Chapter 48 reveals it contains some very important documents from the founding of the company, which they can use to shut Misha down and get her sent to jail for embezzlement.
Cone of Shame: Foxy (one of them, that is) wears one during his...walkies with Bonbon, to keep himself from hurting himself. They're both confused by Mike comparing it to walking a dog, even though he's on a leash.
This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.Which makes perfect sense once you realize that dog-walking wouldn't exist in this universe the way it does in ours, though it's clearly intended to initially cause some Furry Confusion for the viewer.
Corrupt Corporate Executive: The management of Jeremy Human's, as you'd expect seeing as how they're this universe equivalents of the managers of Freddy Fazbear's. In addition to caring more about covering up the mutilations and deaths their precious humanitronics cause, chapter 37 reveals that Jeremy Human's is actually hugely popular, with Mike lampshading that, realistically, the company should be more than capable of financing the various retrofits, upgrades and improvements that would realistically stop the humanitronics being so dangerous.
The Cuckoolander Was Right: Mike's ridiculous fantasy version of the confrontation with Nisha about to go down features her cartoonishly stuffing money into a Thief Bag. When they finally get there, she really does have a big burlap sack of money. It helps that she's almost as much of The Ditz as she lets on.
Curse of Babel: Frederick apparently suffered aphasia at some point, meaning he now only speaks perfect French. He takes it with a good humor.
Dark Is Evil/Dark Is Not Evil: Zigzagged between the two when Mike meets Darky for the first time in chapter 27. Although Bonita insists that he has programming glitches that make him the most dangerous of the humanitronics, when Mike meets him, he actually sounds surprisingly rational: in contrast to the Obliviously Evil Fritzine, he talks to them in a friendly manner, seemingly completely aware that they're same sort of people he interacts with during the day, warning them that Jeremy isn't happy about the disappearance of Safety Schmidt, and then goes on his way.
Decomposite Character: In most cases, the attributes of a specific animatronic character have been divided between the two versions of them. For instance, Toy Chica's missing beak and party-girl look goes to Chiclet, while Goose gets her "missing eyes" and the laid-back, slightly dopey expression and attitude.
Comparing the characters to the "Weaver Canon" versions of themselves also reveals this trope applies to traits from those versions of the animatronics. For example, in the Weaver verse, Bonnie/Withered Bonnie was female and Toy Bonnie was male, distinguished by their purple and blue colors, respectively. In the Roommates verse, both of the Toy Bonnie analogues are female and Bonworth is based on a male Bonnie. Likewise, Bonita has many of the personality traits of "Weaver Bonnie", but the latter's yandere-esque obsession with Mike most closely manifests as Bonbon's "humie" obsession.
Don't Look At Me: Mangle's reaction to having Mike misinterpret signals and walk into their room. There's a reason they prefer to stay in the apartment's air vents or covered up with a blanket, as weird as that might otherwise be.
DreamWorks Face: The cover of Chapter 43, part 1, features a Legend of Bob standee with Bob making such a face. Mike does a good impression.
Dysfunction Junction: The apartment complex is not a happy place. To go into more detail...
Mike Schmidt: A human being somehow transported to a World of Funny Animals where humans don't exist save as fictional beings. Implied to be "the" Mike Schmidt from Weaver's "Weaver Canon" FNaF universe, with suppressed memories of his time at Freddy Fazbear's. May also be connected to the mysterious disappearance of the "Safety Schmidt" humanitronic.
April Marchand May: A female rabbit with heavy bodily scarring, clarified in chapter 45 to be extensive burn scars.
Frederick: A bear who suffers a form of aphasia, causing him to only speak in French, in a world where French as a language doesn't exist, causing everyone else to think he speaks in gibberish.
Chiclet: A hen with a missing beak.
Bonnibel: An extremely nervous and timid rabbit who suffers from an unidentified mental disorder, requiring large amounts of medication.
Foxglove: Suffers extremely poor body issues, is fixated on moving about in air-vents rather than out amongst normal people, and seems to have no sense of personal space when it comes to others. To the extent she snaps illicit photos of the other residents and puts them up on a pay-per-view porn site that she runs.
Faz: A heavily mutilated bear, with severe internal injuries and myriad surgical scars. He was forced to use one of the "springtrap" suits at Jeremy's Human's and the safety catch broke. Miraculously, he survived.
Cheeky: A hen who contracted cancer from Jeremy Human's, resulting in expensive operations on her internal organs to save her life. She has nerve damage that results in spots of total insensitivity and cramps of various pain levels.
Bonworth: A rabbit who had his legs crushed by a heavy object that he was forced to improperly transport whilst working at Jeremy Human's, resulting in their amputation.
Haddock: A fox who suffered brain damage due to a panel giving way whilst he had his head inside a humanitronic to perform maintenance. Also lost his hand.
Fred Fazbear: A bear whose brother, Goldie, created Jeremy Human's and then died mysteriously. Claims to be the regional manager for the franchise, but in fact he's been fired; he's in denial about it. Also desperate to preserve Jeremy's good name, despite how many of his friends it's hurt.
Chichi: The most normal seeming member of the cast, so far.
Bonita: A rabbit who appears to have some difficulties with overprotective parents. Also, she is understandably rather traumatized after she is nearly vivisected by Fritzine in chapters 29 and 30, and before that, she's had a history of seeing Fred's dead brother Goldie.
Rackham: A fox who was blinded in one eye and lost his hand saving Goose from the same incident where her eyes were damaged.
Peanut: A bear who seems to suffer from some level of narcolepsy, although this is stated in-universe to be just a "seasonal issue" relating to the approaching winter.
Goose: A blind hen who lost her vision when the batteries of the humanitronics exploded, sending acid into her eyes.
Bonbon: A hyperactive rabbit with a pronounced "humie" obsession, who may have faced a lot of prejudice for her unusual interest and/or Manchild status.
Mangifera: A ditzy female fox who is implied to have lost an eye to Fritzine..
Early Installment Character-Design Difference: Compared to the earlier comic designs, only Mango's has been changed: she appears somewhat older, much heavier (while we didn't see much of her body there), and with less cartoonish facial features. She also had multiple arms and/or legs in the original design, which was scrapped.
Earn Your Happy Ending: They have to go through hell and high water to get it, including a final face-off with Jeremy Human himself, but all of our main characters end up alive, well and with a happy ending. Mike has found a home away from the nightmare of the animatronics at Freddy Fazbear's, with lots of friends, several potential love interests, and a new job as the apartment night-shift security guard. Goldie seems to have finally passed on to the afterlife. April and Faz are both well on the mend from their extensive physical injuries. Beanie has a new job she likes as a professional Games Master at the local gaming shop. Bonnibel's made real progress in overcoming her anxiety disorder. Rackham's bad eye has recovered. Frederick is starting to be able to speak English again. Bonbon's peacefully accepted the cancellation of Legend of Bob, admittedly by finding a new show to fixate on, and made some money off the Balloon Boy prize that Mike won her. Bonworth has gotten more advanced prosthetic legs, allowing him to get around without pain. The hens have started up a little exercise club to help tackle their weight problems. Mango and Foxglove are starting to get along. Fred Fazbear has gotten over his delusions and found closure. The Jeremy Human's franchise and its Hostile Animatronics is ended. April and Fred are planning on launching a new franchise to take its place — one without the "quirks" of their last one. Even the animatronics get happy endings! Darky is free and off roaming the world, whilst Safety Schmidt has been transferred to the FNaFverse, where he has found contentment as the night shift watchman — and because they view him as one of them, the animatronics have ceased their murder attempts and are focusing on subtly fixing up the pizzeria, and may even save it from being condemned. Even the Bonnie animatronic has managed to find happiness by transferring her obsession with Mike to Safety Schmidt.
Equivalent Exchange: Jeremy Human had Fritzine invent a device to banish Safety Schmidt from their dimension so his plans could proceed. What actually happened was that it switched him with Mike Schmidt, his Alternate Universe counterpart.
Eye Motifs: As per usual, there are a lot of them. Many eyes have been damaged or ripped out, and attention is drawn to their color and status frequently.
Fantastic Racism:
Played straight in regards to species, where for instance the words "vermin" and "mutt" are treated as the harshest racial slurs (and an admittedly cheating rat is treated as "typical" as per Animal Stereotypes), and Mike inadvertently using the phrase "kill two birds with one stone" elicits shocked gasps.
Parodied with Darky, though, who—while very racist to humans—isn't seen as at all offensive to the inhabitants of this world, given that humans are just a fictional species here.
Fish out of Water: Mike has a very hard time adjusting to social mores in this world in the early chapters.
Foreshadowing: When Mike tags along with Bonnie for her shift Jeremy Human voices his disappointment when the clock strikes six and he can't harm them. This is our first indication that he's different from the other humanitronics, who aren't intentionally malicious.
Furry Fandom: The alternate-universe equivalent, the "Humie Fandom", exists here, and Mike is assumed to be a member by some, since he's apparently shaved his ape fur to look more like a human. His protests of actually being one are met with the kind of bemusement reserved for mainstream reactions to Otherkin.
Fun with Acronyms: The group that helped set up the cruise the gang goes on in chapter 50 is called "S.C. Independent Service Associates, Hosting, And Catering Kitchens". Turned into an acronym, that spells "S.C. IS A HACK".
Gambit Roulette: In order for Jeremy Human's plan to succeed, things had to unfold in exactly one specific way. April had to survive the fire he set, Nisha had to be appointed interim CEO, a fund had to be established for the victims of the accidents Jeremy caused, Nisha had to embezzle from that, and Kilroy had to be planning to betray her and release the animatronics at the last minute. Apparently he's a fantastic judge of people's motivations.
Genre Blindness: April is smart enough to understand that the series of mysterious "accidents" happening to potential witnesses to corruption are no accident. She's not smart enough to connect them to the seeming idiot she put in charge of the company while she was away, who manages things from a private fund that she's never seen, or even consider that whoever was behind it might have accomplices.
Genre Shift: Beginning as slice of life, at the climax it abruptly veers into Film Noir and, predictably given the source material, gruesome horror.
Good Old Fisticuffs: Jeremy Human meets his end when Fredrick tears him apart with his bear hands.
Hostile Animatronics: This is still a Five Nights at Freddy's story. The Jeremy Human's animatronics are very hostile indeed, especially to the night guard: Beanie.
I Am the Noun: In Chapter 49, there's this Badass Boast:
April: [The accident was an] industrial accident.
Jeremy: I AM an industrial accident.
Impersonating the Evil Twin: Mike ends up exploiting his similar appearance to the animatronic Safety Schmidt to rescue Beanie from the animatronics. She notes how well Mike pulled it off.
Mike tries it again to get Frtizine to stop making the Mish-Mashes. It doesn't quite work that time
In-Joke: Mr. Cawthon, the high school homeroom teacher for several of the characters, was a beaver, and his last name is a reference to the creator of Five Nights At Freddy's.
Ironic Death: Jeremy seems to specialize in arranging these. He killed Goldie by "opening him up for some maintenance", as he'd order to be done on the animatronics. He clearly spent a lot of time planning the one he intends for Nisha—turning his metaphorical puppet who wanted to be in charge into a literal puppet on the stage and tearing her apart. That one fails just in time, though.
It Came from the Fridge: Downplayed, but when Mike finds that Bonbon accidentally overlooked a bottle of heavily spoiled milk whilst cleaning out the fridge, he describes it as being "on its way to gaining sentience".
Killer Game Master: Beanie used to be one playing Strongholds & Sapiens in high school. She wanted to "win" the game.
Logic Bomb: Mike hits Fritzine with a couple of these, but they only cause her to hard reboot. Still, the reboots buy time for Mike and Faz to find a way to incapacitate her.
Manchild: This is pretty much the defining trait of the denizens of 87-A — Peanut, Goose, Bonbon and Magnifera. The character sheet lists them as "The Careless Friends", and Mike himself notes they live disgustingly laidback lifestyles, given one of them is blind and needs help.
MST3K Mantra: Invoked In-Universe. During his first exposure to Jeremy Human's and the "quirks" of the humanitronics, Mike points out some of the obvious logical faults with how they operate, such as the whole "recharge batteries by roaming at night" thing, until Beanie irritably cuts him off and exasperatedly points out that nobody knows why they're set up this way, they just are.
Mythology Gag: There are assorted shoutouts to both the Five Nights at Freddy's canon and to the "Weaver Canon".
Foxglove refuses to walk if she can crawl through the air ducts instead, referencing Mangle's pattern of movement in FNaF 2.
In "Weaver Canon", Bonnie and Toy Bonnie are depicted as sister and brother. In Roommates, Bonita, the Bonnie analogue, has a twin brother, Bonworth.
In "Weaver Canon", Bonnie was obsessed with Mike in her own insane, yandere-style form of crush, wanting to put him into a suit so they could be together. In Roommates, Bonbon is a full-blown, out-and-proud humie fan (an obvious reference to/inversion of Furry Fandom) who, in her dedicated mini, admits she's sexually attracted to them as well and finds Mike really appealing for hitting two of her major hooks. Ironically, Bonbon is based on Toy Bonnie, who was the male Bonnie in "Weaver Canon".
Likewise, Bonbon and Bonnibel both kiss Mike in chapters 33 and 38, respectively. Although, again, they're both ironically based on Toy Bonnie rather than Original/Withered Bonnie.
In mini #6, Bonnibel has a nightmare in which her roommates turn into zombies - except for Chica, who turns into a watermelon. This refers to This example contains a YMMV entry. It should be moved to the YMMV tab.a joke amongst the fans about Phantom Chica's textures mixed with her rounded shape making her look like a watermelon.
In chapter 30 Mike has a nightmare about the humanitronics breaking Beanie's face off of her skull, leaving her looking like Withered Bonnie.
In chapter 43, when attending Humiecon, Mike gets given the name "Eggs Benedict" by a clearly imbecilic security guard. This is a reference to a trio of Weaver Canon comics where Mike quits his job at Fazbear's and moves to a new place with far better security, including a genuinely helpful security AI that just happens to be terrible with names, resulting in it calling him "Eggs Benedict".
Several of the animatronics from Sister Location show up in chapter 43. Ballora shows up as the new villain in the episode reveal for "The Legend of Bob". An unnamed cameo consists of "another con-goer of indeterminate species... in a grotesquely lumpy skinsuit and party hat, making quiet, strained noises with every step", clearly a reference to Ennard.
Balloon Boy is an In-Universe Hate Sink, which actually refers to his general reception amongst the fandom.
In chapter 46, whilst researching Jeremy Human's, Mike finds a conspiracy theory that the humanitronics are haunted by the ghosts of kids who were killed on the property by a Serial Killer. Whilst this is more or less the canon for the games, in this universe, Mike dismisses it; the date when the murders happened, in the early 1980s, is before the Jeremy Human's franchise even existed, as Goldie Fazbear was in pre-school.
Peanut having a bear mother named Fran and a rabbit little brother named Bonson may be a reference to Funtime Freddy and BAWN-BAWN from FNaF: Sister Location.
Nice Job Fixing It, Villain!: It's unclear why Nisha would tell Peanut about April signing over the shares to her, the one act that could spoil her entire plan, when she knows perfectly well how he tends to blab. Sure enough, he does. She never planned on staying with the company forever anyway, so it's not like she was trying to groom him as a successor.
Not What It Looks Like: Towards the end of chapter 43, Beanie walks in on Mike rubbing Bonbon's ears, treating it like she just walked in on the two of them about to have sex. Of course, given how sensitive Bonbon admits rabbit ears are, in a way, she kind of did walk in on a bout of G-Rated Sex.
No-Holds-Barred Beatdown: Mike receives one from Jeremy after he foils his attempt to escape from the restaurant.
Obliviously Evil:
Fritzine doesn't mean to be a Killer Robot, she's just so glitchy she can't understand that the "modded humanitronics" she vivisects are actually real people. As far as she's concerned, she's just building evidence to try and get the management to stop using these "shoddy, nonstandard parts".
In chapter 27, Bonita explains that this is why she tries to drive off Darky; even if he doesn't seem to want to kill them the way that Fritzine does, if the oblivious humanitronic mentions that "the nightguard and her friend" are in the building to Fritzine or Jeremy, those humanitronics will come after them.
Only Known by Their Nickname: As explained earlier on this page, the common names shared amongst the cast result in Mike giving them distinctive nicknames so he can tell them all apart.
Open Mouth, Insert Foot: This is the root-cause behind all of Mike's Plot Mandated Friendship Failures, and even when it doesn't go that far, he still has a tendency to unwittingly upset the other residents with his comments.
Plot-Mandated Friendship Failure: This happens a few times, mostly as an excuse to have Mike move around a bit.
Pre-Mortem One-Liner: From the most unexpected of people, we get this:
Frederick: I want to look the devil in his eye.
Punny Name: Quite a few, but the one that actually gets noticed in-universe is "April Marchand May", who Chica says might as well be called "Spring": she's based on Springtrap.
Riddle for the Ages: The exact method through which Mike and Safety Schmidt switch places across dimensions is never explained, beside an implication that Fix-It Fritzine carried it out under Jeremy's orders.
Rule 63: Some of the characters who actually have canon genders have them reversed here.
The Mangles split the difference—one of them still has an Ambiguous Gender as in the original, but the other is distinctly female.
Running Gag: Nobody understands or knows anything about France or the French, making communications with Frederick nearly impossible. Technically, that's not quite true—Mangle understands him, but chooses not to explain it to everyone just to tease them.
Sadly Mythtaken: A variation, in that Mike is repeatedly confronted by the local animal-people getting their "human mythology" ridiculously inaccurate. For example, in chapter 43, a gorilla asserts that humans are supposed to have tails, whilst in mini #9, he's told that "fantasy historians" have apparently "proven" that humans have thermal vision and are racially colorblind.
Save the Villain: As Nisha turns out to not be the mastermind, but simply a common criminal being manipulated by Jeremy, the gang rescues her from a gruesome demise at the animatronic's hands. She is, to her credit, extremely grateful and remorseful.
Scars Are Forever: Chica's missing her beak for plot-relevant reasons, leaving her with horrible facial scars. April has them, too, for different reasons...
Seinfeldian Conversation: In chapter 6, after Bonnibel has a panic attack over her medication, Mike starts a conversation about gelatin and instant noodles to distract her so she won't feel embarrassed. In chapter 32, he's heartbroken to realise that his friends are using the same trick on him following his own freakout.
Self-Disposing Villain: Afton was evidently planning to betray Nisha by having her killed by the Jeremy humanimatronic once the plan reached completion. Instead, he himself gets killed, and gruesomely at that.
Shoo Out the Clowns: Some of the wackier characters become much more composed and somber during serious scenes, such as Mango managing to talk about her love for working with children without making an outright Double Entendre during the backstory-laden Chapter 45.
Shout-Out:
In chapter 43, several characters from the original Chuck-E-Cheese show up at Humiecon, including Mr. Munch (a purple gorilla), Helen Henny (a white hen), Pasqually, and an unnamed mouse clearly intended to be Chuck himself.
In chapter 50, Bonbon mentions that her new show of choice after the cancellation of Legend of Bob is an "old-school rubberhose animation style" cartoon called "Bobby and the Pink Machine", a clear reference to ''Bendy and the Ink Machine".
Spell My Name With An S: A lot of fans tend to mistakenly refer to Bonworth as Bonsworth, to the point the author has actually complained about it.
Stealth Pun: A very dark example: Bonworth, a Bonnie, seems to be preternaturally lucky. In fact, he's just good at cheating, but what makes this a pun is that he lost his feet in an accident. He's a rabbit.
Stop Hitting Yourself: Frederick finishes off Jeremy once and for all by hurling his own punches back at him, then simply ripping his head apart.
Supreme Chef: Frederick's French cuisine is absolutely delicious.
Take That!: This universe's version of Purple Guy, Kilroy Afton, is a sendup of Mickey Mouse, perhaps in allusion to the speculation that real-life deaths around Disney animatronics would be the inspiration for Sister Location's backstory. Besides being a mouse, he's introduced in a photo wearing a musketeer's outfit, making him a mouseketeer, and more disturbingly, Jeremy Human winds up wearing his scalp and ears like the classic Mickey hat.
Take That, Scrappy!: A strange example that's both in-universe and out-of-universe, in multiple layers. Out of universe, Balloon Boy is universally loathed by the fandom, Weaver included. In-universe, he's a character in the Show Within a Show Legend of Bob, and also generally hated for being The Load who adds nothing but Toilet Humor and general obnoxiousness. The creators apparently realize this, since in the new episode debuted in Humiecon, he's violently Killed Off for Real. That said, this is apparently a very shocking plot twist, though, since everyone save Bonbon and Mike are stunned into silence, not least Balloon Boy's dub actor.
Trash of the Titans: Apartment 87-A is infamous throughout the compound for how appalling dirty and disorganized it is. After seeing how quickly they undo his work, and having learned that Goose is blind, Mike takes them to task on this and starts plans to whip them into shape.
Wham Episode: Many chapters end with a very shocking revelation to cap them off.
World of Funny Animals: The story is set in an "inversion" of the FNaF universe, where funny animals inhabit a world without humans.
Worth It: At Humiecon, Bonbon and Mike get thrown out of the Legend of Bob episode screening for loudly cheering at Balloon Boy's very, very unquestionable and final death that removed him from the series forever. Whilst they do find this somewhat embarrassing, they decide it's an acceptable trade-off for at least getting to see Balloon Boy finally die.
Your Costume Needs Work: At Humicon, a gorilla named Wilson Munch claims that Mike's "costume" has an obvious flaw in it — namely, that he lacks a tail. Mike is appropriately dumbstruck, but keeps his amusement to himself.
Also, Mike fails to even place third in the "Most Realistic Human" contest, although this is lampshaded in that there is immediate outrage throughout the audience, who all felt Mike was the guaranteed victory.
